Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to be using our new knowledge of race conditions in order to diagnose a
potential race condition.
Force it to happen and then fix it.
Let's dive in and see what that race condition is so I want to show how a seemingly harmless change
can actually cause you quite a bit of headache and race conditions.
So for example down here in restore states we are using a get components to get hold of an NAF mesh
agent.
Now quite harmlessly you might say why don't I just go ahead and do NAF mesh agent dot enabled.
I've already got it cached so I might as well just go and replace it with nav mesh at night dot enabled.
And in fact here I recently learned something quite cool which is you don't have to do this.
Enable disable to get round the nav mesh.
You can do an ambush agent dot move instead and that will apply the relative movement to the current
position so we could do that instead to get as back to the position.
But I'm going to leave it like this for now just cause I don't want to mess with too many things at
the same time.
So with that aside we'd say well Kate that seems pretty reasonable right.
That we should be able to use and nav mesh agent because it's set up in 0 set up in start.
So that's not great.
It should be set up in a wake.
So if we were to set it up in a week as we should be doing because we should have all our state ready
by the time we get to start.
So we'll move these two things over to awake and you might say OK we should be golden now.
So let me challenge you to find that race.
So where is other places that restore state could be called and cannot race with a weak pose video and
see if you can find that race car.
Welcome back so quick.
An early challenge.
So the other places that we might be calling restore state so be we can right click on it and do a Find
all references to find all the places where restore state is now a lot of these where it's implemented.
But there are some where it is being called and one place is being called is the safer BL entity.
And you can see the safe balances a being called in restore state so we can go up the tree find all
references to that and say that's being called in the safe system restore state.
So let's go and find all references to that.
So this restore state in the save system is being called in two places.
One is in load here and the other one is just after load last seen.
So it could investigate both if we wanted to first let's look at this load find all references to that
load takes us up to the saving system wrap her up another level find all references is going to tell
us that it's being done with the load key that it can't happen in a week or it could be happening in
the portal and it's happening after we've done a load seen async.
Now we know that after load seen icing has yield returned after we go to the next line in this code
routine all the awakes in the scene must have been called.
So that can't race with awakes because all the awakes will have happened already.
So that line of investigation has led us nowhere.
Let's go back using the back button to other places where we might have restored state says final references
to restore state and as we said there was a load last seen.
If we do find all references of load last scene where does that get called.
Gets called in the saving wrapper which itself is an iron numerator which itself gets called in awake
all.
So could that possibly race.
Well let's go back down to load the last scene and see restore state is being called here.
It is being called after a yield return load seeing async.
But notice this is inside an if statement.
So if this if statement is not true we will not be yield returning the async which means that restore
state could be getting called in awake huh.
Which means that we could have a race condition here because we might get restore state called in mover
all the way down and hierarchy of calls it might get and called in mover without a nav mesh set.
So that's no good.
We don't want that sort of stuff to happen.
So the way I'm going to fix this and note in my challenge I didn't say I want you to fix this.
I wanted to show you how we can fix it.
We are going to move this yield return so that it always gets called before we restore state.
Now this is going to mean that we are doing an extra reload of the scene but realistically in game when
you're really playing this game you will always be coming from a loading scene from a menu scene.
So you're going to have to do that load anyway so there's no real harm in the fact that we're doing
a reload here just to make sure that we have got ourselves after an awake but before a start.
That's the idea is this restore state needs to happen after all the quakes have happened but before
any of the starts have started.
So that's the point.
OK.
So the restore state that's happening now what we want is a build index.
And if we don't have the last scene build index in our state file.
Now if you didn't take the savings section or skipped it then just follow along with this bet and just
make the changes that I make basically.
So if we don't have a last scene saved in the save file then we need to give it a default scene.
And that should just be the currently active scene.
So we're gonna do is I'm going to bring this build index outside of the if statement and I'm going to
set it from the scene manager get active scene build index and then if we do have that build index saved
then we can go ahead and restore it from that instead.
So just overwriting the building next value and then the scene manager is going to load whichever one
of those two came through.
So whether it's the current scene it's just gonna reload it or whether it was the last scene that we
had in the save file case.
So with that done let's just type in and check that I project is still running after the change we've
made it does look like it is and we're not getting any race conditions.
Now if you really want to tax the race conditions then I would say the way to do that is to go and mess
with your build order so we're gonna go to the project settings and what we want to have we want to
find the mover down here.
So go and find your movie script bring it into the build order and then we also want to bring into the
build order.
Basically the saving wrapper but actually really funny because it's being spawned by our persistent
object spawner if I want to make it happen earlier than they move as a wake then I actually have to
go and get the persistent object spawner instead.
So whatever is instantiating it we'll call the awakes right there and then.
So that's why I need to get the persistent object born basically.
So I'm going to say I want persistent object spawner to happen before the movie script which should
trigger the race condition.
Right.
Because if we go to the mover and we're saying we'd expect awake to have been called by the time we
get restore then this shouldn't work hopefully.
But now it should because we fixed it.
So let's go ahead and see really I should have done this before to get a repo condition and make sure
that we're getting the error first OK so it's working but let's just check that if I set this back to
how it was like so and just go ahead and hit play.
I'd expect this to give me a null reference error so I do need to be saving it restoring it from a save
file that we've got.
That's an null reference error.
So now I can put this back.
So this is the fixed code and let's go ahead and try that one more time and this time we got no no error
in spite of the fact that we have deliberately manipulated the persistent object spawn as a wake to
happen before the move.
Now that means I'm fairly happy that we fixed that race condition.
And I'm just gonna go to the script execution order and remove those two overrides we really don't need
them there.
So that's it.
Race condition fixed in this lecture we've basically managed to make sure that we get and restore state
callbacks these ones down here always called after awake.
But before start.
So in Start we can rely on a state that was restored but in a wake we can or rather in the store state
we can be happy that everything in awake has already been called all the state in the class that can
be set up has already been set up cool stuff in the next lecture we're going to be going through all
of our classes and evaluating our use of start and awake as against the guidelines that we mentioned
in the last lecture to make sure we're gonna be super safe against race conditions in the future.
See you.